
Medsphere OVID

Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Medsphere Systems Corporation

----

OVID is an OpenVista Interface Domain layer.  Its purpose is to make it
easier to take advantage of the rich data available in the OpenVista server.

OVID does this by facilitating the calling of OpenVista Remote Procedure Calls
(RPCs).  OVID also supplies RPCs that can invoke the fileman "silent-mode" (e.g.
DBS) calls.  So, if a suitable RPC does not exist, fileman access will always
be available.

OVID currently does not access mumps globals directly.  I doubt it ever would
try.  Our intent is to leverage the existing mumps server APIs already
available in the form of fileman and existing RPCs.  These APIs are rich and
mature and, after an "assimilation" period, easy to navigate and discover.

By allowing access to this data in java, we can then leverage other
technologies outside of OpenVista to complement OpenVista's data.  For example,
an OpenVista drug could be easily cross referenced with an external drug
database to provide third-party drug information.

Further, we are hoping to build a domain layer that describes useful OpenVista
objects -- things like Patient, Drug, Order, PatientMovement, etc.  These
objects could then be incorporated into other software projects such as
console reporting tools, web based applications, web services, etc.


The hopeful benefits are:
o the ability to write reusable domain software.
o the ability to incorporate the same domain software into multiple projects.
o the ability to more easily bridge a path between OpenVista data and other
  complementary sources.  For example, retrieving an OpenVista Drug object
  and navigating from its NDC or GCNSequenceNumber to a third party drug
  database.

OVID consists of several collaborating projects (e.g. fmdomain, fileman).

Architecture
------------

http://medsphere.org/docs/DOC-1395

Licensing
---------

Various pieces of Medsphere OVID are licensed differently.  The details of all 
the pieces are laid out in the LICENSES file.

Collaboration
-------------

Medsphere OVID is part of a larger open source project. Aspects of the design, 
requirements definition, development, and testing are done in the community.
Medsphere.org is the central location for this collaborative development
process.

Medsphere.org provides all participants access to the solution development 
process and a voice in how the system evolves.  You can download open source 
software, start discussions, host projects, build clinical content/best 
practices, ask questions, make suggestions and blog about progress.

 * Collaborate 24 x 7
 * Share in the improvement of healthcare
 * Influence the OpenVista roadmap
 * Get answers to your questions from experts, peers, colleagues and others

For a tour of the community or to register go here: http://medsphere.org/tour/

Requirements
------------



Building & Running
------------------

Please review the INSTALL document for information on building and running the 
application.


Release Notes
-------------

The accompanying NEWS file lists defect corrections and enhancements included in 
each release.




